Welcome back everyone.
In this lecture we're going to go over the solutions for the completion of neural network exercise questions.
Let's head to the notebook and get started.
OK here we are at the exercise notebook.
First thing I want to do is actually load up the data set.
We can do this simply by running the cell from the exercise so tense flow carries data sets fashion
eminence and actually want to use map Gottlieb to visualize the data.
I mean we need to import map plot lib thought pie plot as BLT.
And then if we take a look at the training data right now if we take a look at the shape of it it's
sixty thousand images twenty eight by twenty eight.
So let's go ahead and just grab one of those images.
So now we have a single image there.
And then to display just a single image we can say PDT M show.
And that should display the image and in this case since the very first image item is an actual boot.
OK.
So we've done that we understand that we have this data.
Now it's time to process the data.
Luckily for us we can confirm that the maximum value is to fifty five by just saying that Max which
means I can then do a simple pre processing by saying X train is equal to extra and divided by 255 and
that x test is equal to x test divided by two fifty five.
After that we can reshape the x rays to include that fourth dimension.
So what we can do here is we can say X train is equal to x train reshape sixty thousand twenty eight
by twenty eight by one to make sure we include that color channel or a singular color channel I should
say and then x test is going to be x test reshape.
And in this case it's ten thousand points.
So it's twenty eight by twenty eight by one color channel.
So you've reshaped it to include that color channel and then we also want to make sure we convert the
labels to be categorical so we can say from tensor flow doctors thought utilize import to categorical
run that and then we'll say why cat train is equal to this call of two categorical.
And we can say why train.
It should be able to infer that there's 10 classes but we can always make sure of that by passing it
in as well.
And then we'll say why cat test is equal to two categorical on why test and hopefully this feels pretty
familiar given that we've already done almost this exact same process on the M this dataset after that
it comes time to build out the model.
So you want to use full and cares to build out this sequential model.
So start of the imports we'll say from tensor flow that Kerry's import sequential and also from tensor
flow that carries the layers import.
And we're going to use dense compositional to these as well as a max pooling layer that's another to
do there and then we also need to flatten out the results later on in our model.
So we have that ready to go.
We can create our model and then let's add in a conversational air that's compositional to the we'll
go ahead and set filters equal to 32.
This is a value you can play around with.
But we'll set the defaults that we essentially did last time.
So four by four col.
And then we need to specify the input shape to be 28 by twenty eight by one.
And we can also play around if the activation function.
So I can say activation is equal to rectified linear unit.
Once we've done that we'll go ahead and add in a pooling layer.
So that's Max Poole to the where the pool size the default is two by two.
So I could just leave by default or specify it myself but we'll go ahead.
Just keep it to the bye to the.
Next.
For that we'll say a model ad and we'll flatten it out.
You can add in more compositional layers if you want.
But for use case that should be enough.
And then we'll add in a dense layer call with an activation rectified linear unit last layer should
be a dense layer that has the same number of neurons as number of classes.
So that's 10 neurons.
And we also have to make sure that it's soft Max because it's a multi class classification problem.
And then after that we will compile this model if you want you can go ahead and add in things during
training like an early stopping mechanism.
But for analogies keep things simple we'll say categorical cross entropy.
We'll go ahead and just choose an atom optimizer.
See how that works.
And then let's go ahead and keep track of accuracy as well so say accuracy is one of our metrics.
We compile this we can confirm this three model summary call by saying model that summary and then we
can see the results.
OK then it comes time to train the model.
The amount of epochs is really up to you.
We'll have some results here so you can see that essentially after a couple of epochs the performance
tends to hit a point ninety five even after just like three epochs.
So we'll go ahead just train for let's say three epochs here.
So a model fit fit on X train y cat train and as an option you can also pass and validation data.
Let's go ahead and do that.
We'll say validation data is X test with Y cat test.
This wasn't required by the exercise.
We can go and play around with that and let's say epochs is equal to three.
So we won't train at that much.
We should get pretty good results even out of three pucks and the one running it.
You should start seeing it train for the second video I'm only doing three epochs.
You can always add an early stopping and see how it performs.
We can see here we're starting to reach 90 percent so it's pretty good accuracy and on one more hopefully
a brief 90 percent perfect.
If we train for a couple more epochs it's very likely that we would have hit ninety five percent okay.
Following the model so lots of different ways we can do this we'll go ahead and just follow the same
couple of metrics we did.
Let's just ask what the model metrics were so we can do this by saying model metrics.
Names here we can see loss and accuracy as a result.
There's lots of different options we can do.
I can say model history that history.
That into a data frame and then say something like metrics is equal to that and make sure we import
pandas in order to do this.
Import pandas as PD.
There we go.
And then I should be able to plot out my metrics so nothing too crazy here.
Gonna make sure we plot relevant metrics against each other so let's plot in loss vs. validation loss
plot that out it looks like they were still both going down we probably couldn't train for more than
three epochs but for the sake of this recording didn't want to waste time just training and then the
other one we could do is accuracy versus validation accuracy and hopefully they're both also continuing
to go up and there we go so clearly we could've been training for more epochs but let's go ahead and
see how we did overall.
We'll say from SDK learn metrics import a classification report and then what we can do here is say
predictions is equal to model predict classes and we'll do that on our x test set and then we simply
print out our classification report comparing y true or really y test to our predictions.
Okay so based off the fact that you probably then train for enough epochs compared to the 10 epochs
in the solution we're still actually performing pretty well.
We have 90 percent accuracy which is essentially what we were aiming for.
Lots of other things you can do here like experiment with compositional layers.
Adding in more neurons etc. playing around kernel sizes but hopefully this was a good exercise in just
you following the general workflow for setting up a compositional neural network.
OK that's it for this section.
Thanks and I'll see you at the next one.